Wylosowano jako **Rytm Roku 2019**.

Start the tune with the intro break (without surdos), then count in the Surdos
for the "Surdo intro part". Come out of the intro and into the groove using the
Boum Shakla Break.

## Znak

![](data:image/png;base64,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
"Xangô Tune Sign")

Rain trickling down, with 10 fingers

## Kontekst

**Name:** Xangô (pronounced Shango) is an Orisha, a spirit in the Yoruba
religion (originating from Central Africa, but making its way to South America
through slavery) ([Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shango)). Xangô is
the god of lighning and thunder, known and feared for his strength and
agression.

Traditional Xango ceremonial drumming are one of the influences to
Afro-Brazilian music. There are quite a lot of groups and songs that have the
word Xango in their name.

**Musical background:** A group called Xangó Batucada seems to play something
similar to our tune ([YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KU_GkAxMCWU),
[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/xangosambareggae)). *(More info needed.)*

**Sign:** The tune sign is supposed to symbolize the rain in the thunder storm
the rhythm is supposed to represent. The tune is to remind of the thunder, the
rain and the lightning of the god (or spirit).

**History:** Part of the second round of tunes taken from Barking Bateria in
2004/2005.

### Meaning / Origin of Xangô

1. Religion: Its origin is the religion of the Yoruba, a Westafrican people /
   ethnic group connected mainly via language. It‘s believed that there is a
   Supreme Being known as Olorun or Olodumaré. Several gods called „powers“ are
   worshipped (intermediary spiritual beings, also called orixas in other
   religions. Every orixa is connected to a natural phenomenon, colors, food,
   …). Drumming, dancing and singing are used for rituals, in which for example
   one deity is called down to manifest by possessing a person. People seek
   guidance and protection by the orixas through dance, song and sacrifice, the
   powers are appeased and worshipped.

2. Orixa / Deity: Most popular orixa in the Yoruba-religion and the religions
   that derive from it. God of thunder and lightning, represents justice and
   wisdom, very powerful and known for his anger, his power is the main symbol
   of African resistance against slavery.

### Elements of Christianism in Candomblé, Shango and other African religions

During colonization, enslaved people recognized that some of the Catholic saints
shared symbols and characteristics with their orixas. They began to identify
some of the orixas with these saints, as a method to secretly worship their
actual gods while pretending to embrace the faith of their masters. Depending on
the region, orixas correspond to different saints. Xangô corresponds to Saint
Barbara (she is also associated with lightning and thunder) or Saint Jerome.

In 1983, there was a conference on the orixa tradition and culture in Salvador
(Bahia), when some Candomblé priest*esses proposed to do away with the Catholic
elements in Candomblé (especially imagery of saints). Today it’s hotly debated
whether to do this or not.

## Kontrowersje

Since this tune is directly rooted in Afro-Brazilian religion, many people in
the RoR network consider it cultural appropriation to play it. There is an
ongoing debate on whether this tune should be abandoned.

## Poziom trudności

* **Surda:** łatwy
* **Repi:** średni
* **Snare:** hard
* **:Tamborim:** łatwy
* **Agogô:** średni
